Pride and Prejudice
By Jane Austen
 Image result for pride and prejudice

British Literature
Collection 2: Gender Roles
Book Project
________________


Table of Contents


Background Notes        2
Character Map        3
Verbal Irony Chart        4
Dialogue Analysis Chart         5
Dialectical Journal        6
Character Sketches        9
Key Vocabulary        11
Study Questions        12
Summative Project Options        19
Novel Fact Sheet        20
 https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7e/Scenes_from_Pride_and_Prejudice.png

________________


Background Notes


Setting and Characters
	Author's Background
	* Hertfordshire, England (late 1700's to early 1800's)
* Mrs. Bennet is eager to marry off her five daughters (esp. after Mr. Bingley, a young, rich bachelor, comes to town)
* The Family: (not rich, so must find husband)
   * Mr. and Mrs. Bennet
   * Daughters: Jane, Elizabeth (Lizzie), Mary, Lydia, and Kitty
* The Friends:
   * Mr. Collins
   * Charlotte Lucas
   * Sir William and Lady Lucas
   * Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner
   * Mr. and Mrs. Phillips
* The Newcomers:
   * Charles and Caroline Bingley
   * Mr. and Mrs. Hurst
   * George Winkman
   * Lady Catherine and Miss De Bourgh
   * Colonel Fitzwilliam
   * Georgiana Darcy
	* Jane Austen was born in a small village in south-central England in 1775 (was poor, but educated and respected)
* Father was a county minister
* Austen describes the English upper-class because that is where she lived
* With subtle, ironic wit, Austen captures importance of social status in English society and snobbery of the wealthy upper class
* Austen has a lot in common with Lizzie Bennet because she was socially inferior, had wry, playful humor
* Social status becomes a major problem between Lizzie and Darcy. Compared to Darcy, the Bennets seem low-class.
	Historical Context
	Themes
	* Beginning of the Industrial Revolution, so manufacture begins to replace agriculture. (Biased between new money vs. old money)
* Improved communication and transportation
* Influencers: Prince of Walks (the future King George IV, old money) and Beau Brummel (grandson of a servant and son of a self-made man, new money)
* New money is trying to push their way on, so the old money is not happy about it
* Napoleonic Wars (1792-1815), ⅓ of British army and navy dies.
* War leads to unsanitary conditions, poor wages, high taxes, inflation, strained resources, and no jobs for the veterans (destroys economy, takes years to recover)
* Recovering from war and having technical advancements, there is a rise of the middle class, religious revival, and fashion change (Victorian era)
	* Pride, Prejudice, and First Impressions
* Courtship, Marriage, and Relationships
* Civility, Manners, and Social Class


Character Map


Verbal Irony
Jane Austen's narrator and characters often say one thing and mean something else-- they use verbal irony. Below are some examples from the text. Next to each example of verbal irony, explain the speaker's true meaning.


What They Said
	What They Meant
	"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife."


* Narrator
	This is an example of verbal irony because not all rich men want to get married. Some men on the contrary, wish to stay single in order to avoid the problems that come with a relationship. They would also want to be dependent on themselves and not provide for others financially.
	"I am perfectly convinced… that Mr. Darcy has no defect."


* Elizabeth (while nursing Jane at Netherfield)
	This demonstrates verbal irony because Mr. Darcy's personality contains many qualities, such as pretentiousness, that others would generally think to be damaging to their character thus categorizing it as a defect. By having Elizabeth say this, Austen creates a sarcastic tone that pokes fun at Mr. Darcy's self-indulgent persona.
	"He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us all. I am prodigiously proud of him."


* Mr. Bennet (to Caroline about Wickham)
	This would be verbal irony because it is meant to make Mr.Wickham seem like a nice person to everybody. But,
Mr. Bennet is really saying that Mr. Wickham is running around from girl to girl and not demonstrating respectable qualities.
	"But I believe that I must date [my love for Darcy] from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley."


* Elizabeth (to Jane)
	This is an example of verbal irony because in the beginning of the novel, Elizabeth judges women for marrying for money, such as her friend Charlotte Lucas. However, now she is going to date Darcy after seeing his large estate. This shows that she is contradicting her beliefs by following the stereotype of women marrying for wealth and a high social status.
	________________


Dialogue Analysis
One of Austen's strengths as an author was her ability to craft witty dialogue. The style of Austen's writing is certainly elevated and rich, but her use of dialogue is particularly noteworthy for her unique method of delivery. The exchanges between her characters often remain very formal and public yet are simultaneously charged with passion and personal feeling. Choose one passage of dialogue from the text and give a detailed analysis of the exchange and its importance.


Dialogue
	Analysis
	"When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her sister how very much she admired him.

  'He is just what a young man ought to be,' said she, 'sensible, good humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!-so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!'

  'He is also handsome,' replied Elizabeth, 'which a young man ought likewise to be, if he possibly can. His character is thereby complete.'

   'I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time. I did not expect such a compliment.'

  'Did not you? I did for you. But that is one great difference between us. Compliments always take you by surprise, and me never. What could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help seeing that you were able five times as pretty as every other woman in the room. No thanks to his gallantry as every other woman in the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him. You have liked many a stupider person'" (Austen 16).
	   This exchange between Jane and Elizabeth is fueled with a passion for obtaining a man that not only possesses good character but good looks. Jane Austen includes this quote to show the equal expectations that men and women have while searching for a significant other. This contradicts the idea that men are the only ones that care about the physical features of women as it is shown that women also are interested in fulfilling their aesthetic standards. However, this is still prevalent in today's society but for both genders which is contrary to Austen's main ideas.
















Dialectical Journal
Guiding Question: In what ways does the text highlight or critique traditional gender roles?


Key Quote
	Analysis
	"When she is secure of him, there will be leisure for falling  in love as much as she chuses" (Austen 23).
	Marrying a man is the only way for a woman to ensure their fortune during the Victorian ages. Although this seems highly sexist, during that day and age women had little job opportunities therefore a man's wealth is the on alternative for a women's fortune.



	"'Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton'" (Austen 25)?
	This quote is significant because it supports the idea of traditional gender roles during the Victorian age and beyond that. It is often believed that women tease other men in order to get the attention of the men they want.
	"The business of her life was to her her daughters married; it's solace was visiting and news" (Austen 7).
	This quote illustrates the role of a mother in the Victorian era, which is to find a husband for their daughters in order to obtain a financially stable life for them. Austen decided to include this quote because it shows how women had very little work opportunities to provide for themselves so they had to rely on their husbands financially.
	"I could hardly keep my countenance very nonsensical to come at all! Why must she be scampering about the country because her sister had a cold? Her hair so untidy, so blowsy"  (Austen 36)!
	This quote represents gender roles because in traditional society, women had to worry about their beauty and appearance in order to appeal to men. When Elizabeth comes to Netherfield, the Bingley sisters show the views of traditional women and how they judge one another as if marrying a man is a contest. Austen adds this in order to show how women had to live up to high expectations because the only way a woman is successful is through marriage.
	"A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love to matrimony in a moment" (Austen 28).
	In this quote, it is saying that women jump into relationships fast without letting it develop at a proper pace. They also have this fantasy like image of how marriage and love should be. The author added this quote because during this time period, women and men got married within a short span of time. Mostly, due to money being involved or being able to inherit a certain rank or place in a family.
	"A woman must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing, dancing, and modern languages, to deserve the world" (Austen 39).
	Women had specific roles in society that had little education and labor. For example, shown through the quote, women are traditionally supposed to be entertainment to attract men. This challenges gender roles because Austen lists all of these tasks that show no real importance to society in order to show irony.
	"'But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavour to conceal it, he must find it out'" (Austen 23).
	Gender roles are clearly shown through this quote as it is a common belief that women enjoy playing a game of 'cat and mouse' to entertain a suitor.
	"I am not romantic you know. I never was. I ask only a comfortable home; and considering Mr. Collins's character, connections, and situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair, as most people can boast on entering the marriage state" (Austen 123).
	Charlotte Lucas follows gender roles by marrying men for their social status and wealth. This fits gender roles because most women marry to please men because they care most about their social class. Even though Elizabeth contradicts this idea by rejecting Mr. Collins, Charlotte believes that she will be happy by marrying him despite barely knowing him and showing no attraction towards him.
	"'My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example of matrimony in his parish. Secondly, that I am convinced it will add very greatly to my happiness'" (Austen 103).
	This supports gender roles because wealthy men marry for happiness. This also supports the first sentence of the novel because it claims that men with fortune are in the need of a wife. Mr. Collins fortune is that of holiness and what he considers a guiding principle for marrying a young women.
	"They may wish many things besides his happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence, they may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great connections, and pride" (Austen 134).


	"'But I tell you what, Miss Lizzy, if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at all-and I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead'" (Austen 111).
	This indicates how Elizabeth needs a husband soon before her father dies because then shes will have no means of being financially supported. This also shows how women have little to no work opportunities so they have to rely on their husband for money.
	"That it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept when the first applies for his favour"
(Austen 104)
	This quote means that men think that if a woman is saying no to them, they really mean yes or that they are trying to be proper. Mr. Collins does not take her response as rejection, but her trying to be proper as woman.
	"'And what do you think of my husband? Is not he a charming man? I am sure my sisters must all envy me. I only hope they may have half my good luck. They must all go to Brighton. That is the place to get husbands. What a pity is, mamm, we did not all go'" (Austen 300).
	This represents gender roles because Lydia is showing off that she got married before her sisters. This is because it i important for a women to reach success in society by getting married. Lydia shows off as he is not the oldest daughters, even though her marriage with Wickham is not based on true love.
	"


	________________


Character Sketches
A character sketch is a written description of a character in a story. In writing a character sketch, you are to observe a character in a novel to get a feel of what this character is really like, and then relay that information to another reader in a clear concise manner.
There are 6 aspects by which most authors describe their characters. They are:
1. Physical description
2. What the character says/does
3. What the character thinks
4. What others say to or about the character
5. What others do to the character
6. The setting in which the character is found
For a character sketch, you must use quotations from the book to support your observations. Use quotation marks and parenthetical citation. Include at least one quotation per box.
Elizabeth
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "the beautiful expression of her dark eyes" (Austen 24).
* "'What congratulations will then flow in! I appeal to Mr. Darcy:－but let me not interrupt you, Sir.－You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me'" (Austen 91).
	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt me…" (Austen 13). - Mr. Darcy
* "'Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half as good humoured as Lydia'" (Austen 6). -Mrs. Bennet
* "'They are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters'" (Austen 7). - Mr. Bennet
* "' You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza…" (Austen 27). - Sir William
* "'I Have been meditating on the very great pleasure with a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty women can bestow'" (Austen 27). - Mr. Darcy
	What the Character Says/Does
* "'Compliments always take you by surprise, and me never'" (Austen 16).
* "'but I always speak what I think'"(Austen 16).
* "'A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony in a moment'" (Austen 28).
* "Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was
determined to go to her, though the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no horse-woman, walking was her only alternative. She declared her resolution" (Austen 32).
* "I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal [to marry Mr. Collins]" (Austen 105).
* "'Insolent girl!' said Elizabeth to herself." (Austen 93).
	What Others Do to the Character
* "It was generally evident whenever they met whenever they met, that he did admire her; and to her it was equally evident that Jane was yielding the the preference…" (Austen 22).




	What the Character Thinks
* "The tumult of her mind was now painfully great. She knew not how to support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half an hour… That she should receive an offer of marriage from Mr.Darcy" (Austen 189).
* "She could not think of Darcy's leaving kent, without remembering that his cousin was to go with him; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear that he had no intentions at all, and agreeable he was, she did not mean to be unhappy about him" (Austen 184).




	The Setting Where the Character is Found
* "The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. . . On finding, Mrs. Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together. . ." (Austen 102).
* "Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter" (Austen 235).






Darcy
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention in the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mein; and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance of his having ten thousand a year" (Austen 12).


	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "The gentlemen pronounced him to be the fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of popularity, for he was discovered to be proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his large estate in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most forbidding, disagreeable, countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his friend" (Austen 12).
* "He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again" (Austen 13).
* "'Indeed, Mama, you are mistaken,' said Elizabeth, blushing for her mother. 'You quite mistook Mr. Darcy. He only meant that there were not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which you must acknowledge to be true'" (Austen 43).
* "Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, ductility of his temper . . .  had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion. In understanding Darcy was the superior . . . Darcy was clever. He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious, and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting . . . Darcy was continually giving offence" (Austen 18).
* Mrs. Bennet: "that Lizzy does not lose much by not suiting his fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited that there was no enduring him. He walked here, and he walked there fancying himself so very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set downs. I quite detest the man" (Austen 15).
* Charlotte: "Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend" (Austen 20).
* "Miss Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy" (Austen 36).
* "'Good heavens!' cried Elizabeth; 'but how could that be－How could his will be disregarded－Why did not you seek legal redress'" (Austen 78)?
* "'What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing he may not like to hear'" (Austen 97).
* " Mr.Darcy acknowledged himself to be under the greatest obligations to my father's active superintendent . . 1. I am convinced that he felt it to be as much a debt of gratitude to him, as to affection to myself" (Austen 79)
* "'Heaven forbid!－That would be the greatest misfortune of all!－To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!－Do not wish me such an evil'" (Austen 89).
	What the Character Says/Does
* " There is meanness in all the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation." (Austen 40)
* "Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party" (Austen 13).
* "Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely allowed her [Elizabeth] to be pretty; he had looked at her without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, he looked at her only to criticise" (Austen 24). He begins to admire Elizabeth, noticing her dark eyes.




	What Others Do to the Character
* " And taking her hand, he would have given it to Mr. Darcy, who, though extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive it, she drew back" (Austen 27)


	What the Character Thinks
* "'The country,' said Darcy, 'can in general supply but few subjects for such a study. In a country neighborhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society'"
(Austen 42)
* About Elizabeth: "'She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt me, and I am no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men" (Austen 13).
* "' And to all she must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading'" (Austen 39)




	The Setting Where the Character is Found
*

















Lady Catherine
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "Lady Catherine was a tall, large woman, with strongly-marked features, which might once have been handsome" (Austen 159).


	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in the power to offer. You will find her manners beyond any thing I can describe. . ." (Austen 194).
* Darcy's aunt: "'You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present Mr. Darcy'" (Austen 81).
* Mr.Collins: " Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed. She likes to have the distinction of rank preserved." (Austen 168)
* ¨Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of her-their opinion of everybody-would always coincide, there was a solicitude, an interest


	What the Character Says/Does
* ". . . and pray tell from me, that she cannot expect to excel, if she does not practise a great deal" (Austen 169)




	What Others Do to the Character




	What the Character Thinks




	The Setting Where the Character is Found










Key Vocabulary
Define and review the following key vocabulary for the novel. In addition, keep track of other vocabulary that is new or unfamiliar.


Word
	Definition
	Unfamiliar Words/Phrases
	odious
	Extremely unpleasant or repulsive
	"Mercenary Marriage" - Marriage for money.


"Caprice"- Impulsive change of mine


"Pliancy" - Flexibility


"Supercilious" - disdainful
"Vogue" - popularity


"Alacrity" - cheerful willingness


"Destitute" - poor


"Querulous" - complaining


"Panegyric" - compliment


"Tete a tete"- a private conversation between two people.


	haughty
	arrogant
	fastidious
	Meticulous or very attentive to detail
	veneration
	Great respect
	pompous
	Solemn or of self-importance
	taciturn
	Untalkative or saying little
	complaisance
	Complying with a wish or command
	imprudent
	Being rash or not showing care
	volatility
	Liability to change rapidly and unpredictably
	disdain
	feeling that someone or something is unworthy of one's consideration or respect; contempt
	exuberant
	Filled with lively energy and excitement
	petulance
	Being childish and bad-tempered
	acrimony
	Bitterness or ill feeling
	fortnight
	A period of two weeks in British terms
	brevity
	Concise or use of exact words
	ungracious
	Not polite or friendly
	saucy
	Cheeky, bold
	frankness
	the quality of being open, honest, and direct in speech or writing
	abominably
	Very unpleasantly or unfairly
	wit
	clever or apt humor
	censure
	expression of formal disapproval
	vexed
	Problematic, annoyed, frustrated, or worried
	Study Questions
Chapters 1-12
At the first ball, what facts does the narrator give about Darcy? How do the guests perceive him? What is Elizabeth's first impression of him? Why?


At the first ball, the narrator describes Darcy as  a rich, handsome man. At first, the guests think that he should be respected because of his fortune. However, as they meet him, they consider him as a conceited and prideful man. Elizabethś first impression of him was that he is judgmental and full of pride because she overhears him and Bingley talking about her and Elizabeth. He says that Elizabeth is nowhere near as handsome as Jane, so he is not interested. He is not interested in any women there because he looks down on them. This affects how Elizabeth treats or thinks of him for the next few chapters.


Who is Charlotte Lucas? What comment does she make about Jane? What do you suppose is the reason behind such a comment?


Charlotte Lucas is Elizabeth's best friend, and daughter of William Lucas. Charlotte Lucas comments that Jane should "secure her man" and then fall in love. Charlotte Lucas makes this comment because she feels that there is enough leisure time after being married to truly fall in love.


At Sir William Lucas's gathering, how does Darcy act around Elizabeth? At Netherfield, what are their conversations like?


At Sir William Lucas's gathering, Darcy is a very cold, pretentious man who feels too good for any woman at the gathering claiming that she is an average looking woman who is not "handsome enough to tempt him". When Darcy and Elizabeth are at Netherfield, their conversations were short of of little to no importance as Elizabeth had overheard Darcy claiming that she was nothing special to look at. Thus causing her to put little effort in maintaining the conversation with Mr. Darcy.


Why, do you think, is Darcy attracted to Elizabeth? What appealing qualities does she have?


The appealing qualities that Mr.Darcy is attracted to when it comes to Elizabeth is she is hard to get and she has are her eyes, which mostly attracted him. She is also different from other women since she does not follow with how a typical woman during that time should act, like having strong will and not caring to get her "hands dirty".


Charlotte Lucas says, "Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance." What does this statement reveal about her? Do you agree with her statement? Explain.


Charlotte's statement reveals that everyone should marry for wealth or social status before thinking about happiness. Therefore, happiness is created after their marriage or it is mere luck that the couple has a connection after marriage at all. I do not agree with her statement because happiness should be thought of before wealth or social status. People should marry for love.


Chapters 13-24
When Wickham and Elizabeth first meet, what report does Wickham give Elizabeth about Darcy? What second impression does Wickham make on her? What is your impression of Wickham?


Wickham expresses the untrustworthiness of Darcy by giving an experience where Darcy's father wills him to give Wickham the position of clergyman, but Darcy refused to make Wickham a clergyman once his father had past away.  Wickham's ways of speech and conversing with Elizabeth makes a romantic second impression on her.


How does Elizabeth respond to Mr. Collins's proposal? What does her response reveal about her character?


Elizabeth refuses Mr. Collins's proposal in the most polite and delicate manner that she is capable of. Her response to Mr. Collins's illustrates how Elizabeth is not interested in marrying to improve her own financial status. Instead, Elizabeth wants to marry someone whom she will love and who will bring her happiness. "You could not make me happy, and I am convinced that I am the last women in the world who would make you so" (Austen 105).


What event leaves Jane feeling downcast? Why is Elizabeth angry at Bingley, his sisters, and Darcy?


Jane feels downcast after Bingley, his sisters, and Darcy return back to London. Caroline Bingley writes back that Bingley is hitting it off with Miss Darcy and they plan to stay in London for awhile, so Jane tells herself that it is okay and that she will get over him eventually. Elizabeth is angry at his sisters and Darcy because she believes that they are trying to encourage Bingley to marry Miss Darcy. This is mainly because it will bring them closer as they are both wealthy families. Elizabeth is mad at Bingley because it seems as if he was leading on Jane. As her sister, she dislikes this injustice and believes her sister deserved better.


How does Wickham's story deepen Elizabeth's prejudice against Darcy?


Wickham's story deepen Elizabeth's prejudice against Darcy by stating how Darcy did not follow his father's will. By doing so, Elizabeth continues or strengthens her belief that Darcy is a conceited and prideful man that does not care about anybody other than himself. Elizabeth already has that feeling after he insults her appearance in the beginning of the story, so Wickham's story reassures her that her feelings are valid.


Do you share Elizabeth's shock at Charlotte's engagement to Mr. Collins? Explain.


I do not share Elizabeth's shock at Charlotte's engagement to Mr. Collins because we already know that Charlotte believes that people should marry for wealth or social status rather than love. This is shown when she tells Jane that she should "secure the bag." Therefore, it is not a shock that she would marry Mr. Collins for his wealth  social status.




Chapters 25-38
What new interest does Wickham have? What are the reasons behind this new interest? Does Elizabeth disapprove? Explain.
Wickham sets her sights on a new woman named Miss. King because she inherits a large sum of money which he needs as he is not as well off as she is. However, Elizabeth does not disapprove because she can understand his reasonings as to why he would need the money.




To whom is Lady Catherine de Bourgh related? How would you describe her treatment of Elizabeth?
Lady Catherine de Bourgh is the sister of Anne Darcy, mother of FitzWilliam Darcy and Georgiana Darcy. Lady Catherine de Bourgh tries to intimidate Elizabeth by trying to educate her on proper female manners because she thinks Eliza is improper and low class.


What important information does Elizabeth learn about Darcy from Colonel Fitzwilliam? How does she react?


The important information that Colonel Fitzwilliam tells Elizabeth that Mr.Darcy is very protective of his friend, which is most likely referring to Bingley, and that he was just making sure that he was not making a bad decision and not getting himself into an unwise marriage. She reacts by thinking that Colonel Fitzwilliam was hinting at the idea that he wants to marry her and this shows by how her face flushes with red everytime she thinks some of his commentings are referring to it.


The novel reaches its first climax, or dramatic turning point, in this section. In what scene does this climax occur? What questions hang in the reader's mind after this scene?


The first climax is when Darcy proposes to Elizabeth. This scene occurs after Elizabeth's interaction with Colonel Fitzwilliam and finds out how Darcy influenced the breakup between Jane and Bingley. Elizabeth rejects Darcy and explains why she is prejudice against him. He leaves, which makes the readers question what will happen next  between them.


What effect does Darcy's letter have on Elizabeth? What does she realize about herself? About her family?


Darcy's letter affects Elizabeth because it reveals the truths against Mr. Wickham. This makes her realize that she has a prejudice against Mr. Wickham and Mr. Darcy, which affected how she thought and treated them. This makes her also realize that her family is embarrassing, which hurts her. She cannot tell Jane about this letter because it will hurt Jane to know how her true feelings for Bingley were not there or shown.




Chapters 39-50
What two secrets concerning Darcy does Elizabeth reveal to Jane? What concern does Elizabeth express to her father?


The two secrets that Elizabeth tells Jane about Darcy is his proposal to Elizabeth and the letter he sent concerning George Wickham and how truly evil he is. They also decided to be quiet about Mr. Wickham due to the slim chance that no one will believe them and also because wickham was going away soon. Elizabeth tells her father that she is concerned about Lydia's character and behavior.


What does Elizabeth learn about Darcy from the housekeeper at Pemberley? When Darcy appears, what surprises her about his behavior?


Elizabeth learns that Darcyś housekeeper at Pemberley respects and adores him, which is peculiar because she has a prejudice towards Darcy for being a selfish and prideful man. When Darcy appears, she is surprised because Darcy is so respectful and generous towards Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner. She sees a new side to him that she did not see in Netherfield.


What crisis occurs involving Lydia? How is the crisis resolved?


The crisis that occurs involving Lydia was that she ran away with Mr.Wickham and she would have ruined the reputation of herself and her sisters. This crisis was resolved when Mr.Bennet decided to pay Mr.Wickham ten thousand pounds in order to have him marry Lydia and keep from scandal from happening.


Which chapters provide comic relief from the mounting suspense about Lydia's and Elizabeth's futures in this section? What comic events occur in these chapters?


Chapter 50 provides comic relief from the mounting suspense about Lydia's and Elizabeth's future  because Mrs. Bennet receives news that Lydia has been married and instead of questioning who she has married she jumps up with excitement that one of her daughters has married at last despite her not knowing it is Wickham. This shows comical relief through Mrs. Bennett's childish behaviors because she is acting like a child would to exciting news


In Chapter 42, what techniques does Austen use to describe the shortcomings of the Bennet's' marriage? In what ways is it a failed marriage?
In Chapter 42, Austen uses the inner thoughts of Elizabeth to describe the shortcomings of the Bennet's' marriage. Austen reveals that Eliza always thought that her father was a lousy husband but suppressed those thoughts due to him being a good father to her. Elizabeth admits that her father benefited from her mother's ignorance and therefore did not really feel inclined to make her happy.


________________


Chapters 51-61
Describe Lydia and Wickham as newlyweds. How does Darcy solve the family crisis Lydia has caused? How does Elizabeth find out about Darcy's actions?


As newlyweds, Lydia is very boastful about her being married and seems like she deeply is deeply in love with Wickham. She also talks very highly of her husband. Wickham does not seem to reciprocate her feelings. Darcy solves the crisis that Lydia causes for her family by paying off the fee the couple asks, for pays off Wickham's debts, and informs Mr.Gardner of where there location was. Elizabeth finds out about Darcy's actions first by Lydia letting it slip and then she pushes it out of her aunt to tell her about it.


Why does Lady Catherine cross-examine Elizabeth? How does Elizabeth respond?


She wants to make sure Elizabeth is not wanting to marry her nephew and that him and his cousin will be able to be engaged. She responds by standing up to Lady Catherine and not agreeing to not marry Darcy.


What do Elizabeth and Darcy say to each other on their long walk? What has each learned from the other?


Darcy starts off with telling Elizabeth how he still loves her and how his feelings towards her never changed. He then asked her if her feelings towards him have changed or stayed the same. Elizabeth then reveals to Darcy that her feelings towards him has changed drastically changed. This realization then caused Darcy to propose and towards the end, they were engaged.


Defending her right to marry Darcy, Elizabeth tells Lady Catherine, "He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman's daughter; so far we are equal." In what other ways are Elizabeth and Darcy equals?


Elizabeth and Darcy are equals


Considering the story's conclusion, how would you describe Elizabeth? Would you call her a feminist? Explain.


Elizabeth was a strong, independent woman who spoke her mind and did not love for social status unlike other women during that time period. She is not a feminist because she still accepts the roles of men and women. She just does not accept the role of socioeconomic class affecting relationships.










Summative Project Options
Now that we have finished the novel, it is time to complete the summative project. For this unit, you may choose the project you would like to complete.
Etiquette Pamphlet - Write a 4-6 page pamphlet describing appropriate behavior in social situations during this time period. You might address the formalities of making introductions, courting, dancing, and making conversation. Explain whether the guidelines were different for men and women. Elaborate on the importance of good manners in polite society. Address whether or not the rules of behavior were different for the different classes.


Meme Collection - Create 10 memes to represent characters, key plot events, and themes from the text. In addition, write 1-2 sentences for each explaining why it is significant.


Movie Critique - Watch one the the film adaptations of the novel and write a 2-3 page critique addressing the interpretations by the director, including: significant differences in the plot (What scenes and characters from the book are omitted, changed, or combined?), consistency of point-of-view, casting of the characters (Do the actors playing the roles match images created by Austen's development of her characters in the novel?), and creation of suspense (What is gained or lost by knowing the story will have a happy ending? How does the film create suspense?)
Film adaptations options include:
1940. Pride and Prejudice, directed by Robert Z. Leonard (MGM Studios); actors: Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier.
1985. Pride and Prejudice, directed by Cyril Coke (BBC); actors: Elizabeth Garvie and David Rintoul.
1996. Pride and Prejudice, directed by Simon Langton (BBC); actors: Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth.
2005. Pride and Prejudice, directed by Joe Wright (Universal International Pictures); actors: Keira Knightley and Matthew Macfadyen.
2004. Bride and Prejudice, directed by Gurinder Chadha (Miramax); actors: Aishwarya Rai and Martin Henderson.
2016. Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, directed by Burr Steers (Lionsgate); actors: Lily James and Sam Riley.


 https://i.ytimg.com/vi/jp-JUU_pJ0c/hqdefault.jpg
________________



Pride and Prejudice Fact Sheet


full title  ·  Pride and Prejudice
author  · Jane Austen
type of work  · Novel
genre  · Comedy of manners
language  · English
time and place written  · England, between 1796 and 1813
date of first publication  · 1813
publisher  · Thomas Egerton of London
narrator  · Third-person omniscient
climax · Mr. Darcy's proposal to Elizabeth (Volume 3, Chapter 16)
protagonist · Elizabeth Bennet
antagonist · Snobbish class-consciousness (epitomized by Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Miss Bingley)
setting (time) · Some point during the Napoleonic Wars (1797–1815)
setting (place) · Longbourn, in rural England
point of view · The novel is primarily told from Elizabeth Bennet's point of view.
falling action  · The two chapters of the novel after Darcy's proposal
tense  · Past tense
foreshadowing  · The only notable example of foreshadowing occurs when Elizabeth visits Pemberley, Darcy's estate, in Volume 3, Chapter 1. Her appreciation of the estate foreshadows her eventual realization of her love for its owner.
tone  · Comic—or, in Jane Austen's own words, "light and bright, and sparkling"
themes  · Love; Reputation; Class
motifs  · Courtship; Journeys
symbols · The novel is light on symbolism, except on the visit to Pemberley, which is described as being "neither formal, nor falsely adorned," and is clearly meant to symbolize the character of Mr. Darcy.
