Pride and Prejudice
By Jane Austen
 Image result for pride and prejudice

British Literature
Collection 2: Gender Roles
Book Project
________________


Table of Contents


Background Notes        2
Character Map        3
Verbal Irony Chart        4
Dialogue Analysis Chart         5
Dialectical Journal        6
Character Sketches        9
Key Vocabulary        11
Study Questions        12
Summative Project Options        19
Novel Fact Sheet        20
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/lodge/7/7e/Scenes_from_Pride_and_Prejudice.png

________________


Background Notes


Setting and Characters
	Author’s Background
* Hertfordshire, England (late 1700's to mid 1800's)
* Mrs. Bennet is anxious to offer her five girls (esp. after Mr. Bingley, a youthful, rich single man, comes to town)
* The Family: (not rich, so must find husband)
   * Mr. and Mrs. Bennet
* Daughters: Jane, Elizabeth (Lizzie), Mary, Lydia, and Kitty
* The Friends:
   * Mr. Collins
   * Charlotte Lucas
   * Sir William and Lady Lucas
   * Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner
   * Mr. and Mrs. Phillips
* The Newcomers:
   * Charles and Caroline Bingley
   * Mr. and Mrs. Hurst
   * George Winkman
   * Lady Catherine and Miss De Bourgh
   * Colonel Fitzwilliam
   * Georgiana Darcy
* Jane Austen was conceived in a little town in south-focal England in 1775 (was poor, however instructed and regarded)
* Father was a county minister
* Austen portrays the English high society since that is the place she lived
* With unpretentious, unexpected mind, Austen catches significance of economic wellbeing in English society and self importance of the affluent privileged
* Austen shares a considerable measure for all intents and purpose with Lizzie Bennet since she was socially mediocre, had wry, fun loving amusingness
* Social status turns into a noteworthy issue among Lizzie and Darcy. Contrasted with Darcy, the Bennets appear to be low-class.
	Historical Context
	Themes
* Beginning of the Industrial Revolution, so make starts to supplant horticulture. (One-sided between new cash versus old cash)
* Improved communication and transportation
* Influencers: Prince of Walks (the future King George IV, old cash) and Beau Brummel (grandson of a worker and child of an independent man, new cash)
* New cash is endeavoring to drive their way on, so the old cash isn't glad about it
* Napoleonic Wars (1792-1815), ⅓ of British armed force and naval force kicks the bucket.
* War prompts unsanitary conditions, poor wages, high assessments, expansion, stressed assets, and no occupations for the veterans (demolishes economy, takes a very long time to recuperate)
* Recovering from war and having specialized headways, there is an ascent of the white collar class, religious recovery, and mold change (Victorian period)
	* Pride, Prejudice, and First Impressions
* Courtship, Marriage, and Relationships
* Civility, Manners, and Social Class


Character Map


Verbal Irony
Jane Austen's storyteller and characters regularly say a certain something and mean something different - they utilize verbal incongruity. The following are a few precedents from the content. Beside every case of verbal incongruity, clarify the speaker's actual significance.


What They Said
	What They Meant
"It is a fact generally recognized, that a solitary man possessing a favorable luck must be in need of a spouse."


* Narrator
This is a case of verbal incongruity on the grounds that not every single rich man need to get hitched. A few men despite what might be expected, wish to remain single with the end goal to evade the issues that accompany a relationship. They would likewise need to be reliant on themselves and not accommodate others monetarily.
"I am superbly persuaded… that Mr. Darcy has no deformity."


* Elizabeth (while nursing Jane at Netherfield)
This exhibits verbal incongruity since Mr. Darcy's identity contains numerous characteristics, for example, self importance, that others would for the most part think to harm their character in this way sorting it as a deformity. By having Elizabeth say this, Austen makes a wry tone that jabs fun at Mr. Darcy's liberal persona.
"He giggles, and grins, and has intercourse to every one of us. I am enormously glad for him."


* Mr. Bennet (to Caroline about Wickham)
This would be verbal incongruity since it is intended to influence Mr.Wickham to appear to be a pleasant individual to everyone. In any case,
Mr. Bennet is truly saying that Mr. Wickham is circling from young lady to young lady and not showing decent characteristics.
"Yet, I trust that I should date [my love for Darcy] from my first observing his delightful grounds at Pemberley."


* Elizabeth (to Jane)
This is a case of verbal incongruity on the grounds that in the start of the novel, Elizabeth passes judgment on ladies for wedding for cash, for example, her companion Charlotte Lucas. In any case, now she will date Darcy in the wake of seeing his vast home. This demonstrates she is negating her convictions by following the generalization of ladies wedding for riches and a high societal position.
	________________


Dialogue Analysis
One of Austen's qualities as a creator was her capacity to make clever discourse. The style of Austen's composing is absolutely hoisted and rich, however her utilization of exchange is especially important for her exceptional strategy for conveyance. The trades between her characters frequently stay exceptionally formal and open yet are at the same time accused of energy and individual inclination. Pick one section of discourse from the content and give a nitty gritty examination of the trade and its significance.


Dialogue
	Analysis
"Whenever Jane and Elizabeth were separated from everyone else, the previous, who had been mindful in her acclaim of Mr. Bingley previously, communicated to her sister how especially she appreciated him.

'He is exactly what a young fellow should be,' said she, 'sensible, affable, vivacious; and I never observed such glad behavior!- such a great amount of straightforwardness, with such flawless great reproducing!'

'He is additionally nice looking,' answered Elizabeth, 'which a young fellow should similarly to be, on the off chance that he can. His character is in this manner finish.'

'I was especially complimented by his requesting that I move a second time. I didn't expect such a compliment.'

'Did not you? I improved the situation you. In any case, that is one extraordinary distinction between us. Compliments dependably overwhelm you, and me never. What could be more normal than his asking you once more? He couldn't resist seeing that you were capable multiple times as lovely as each other lady in the room. Pass to his courage as each other lady in the room. Forget about it to his valor for that. All things considered, he surely is exceptionally pleasing, and I give you leave to like him. You have loved numerous a more idiotic individual'" (Austen 16).
This trade among Jane and Elizabeth is powered with an enthusiasm for getting a man that has great character as well as great looks. Jane Austen incorporates this statement to demonstrate the equivalent desires that people have while looking for a critical other. This repudiates men are the main ones that care about the physical highlights of ladies as it is demonstrated that ladies additionally are keen on satisfying their stylish principles. In any case, this is as yet predominant in the present society however for the two sexes which is in opposition to Austen's fundamental thoughts.
















Dialectical Journal
Managing Question: In what ways does the content feature or study customary sexual orientation jobs?


Key Quote
	Analysis
"When she is secure of him, there will be relaxation for beginning to look all starry eyed at as much as she chuses" (Austen 23).
Wedding a man is the main path for a lady to guarantee their fortune amid the Victorian ages. Despite the fact that this appears to be very misogynist, amid that day and age ladies had little openings for work in this manner a man's riches is the on option for a ladies' fortune.



"'Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I conveyed what needs be phenomenally well a little while ago, when I was prodding Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton'" (Austen 25)?
This statement is critical on the grounds that it bolsters the possibility of conventional sexual orientation jobs amid the Victorian age and past that. It is frequently trusted that ladies bother other men with the end goal to get the consideration of the men they need.
"A mind-blowing matter was to her girls hitched; it's comfort was visiting and news" (Austen 7).
This statement outlines the job of a mother in the Victorian period, which is to discover a spouse for their little girls with the end goal to acquire a fiscally steady life for them. Austen chose to incorporate this statement since it demonstrates how ladies had next to no function chances to accommodate themselves so they needed to depend on their spouses fiscally.
"I could barely keep my face exceptionally strange to come by any stretch of the imagination! For what reason must she be rushing about the nation since her sister had a cool? Her hair so messy, so blowsy" (Austen 36)!
This statement speaks to sexual orientation jobs in light of the fact that in customary society, ladies needed to stress over their excellence and appearance with the end goal to engage men. At the point when Elizabeth comes to Netherfield, the Bingley sisters demonstrate the perspectives of customary ladies and how they judge each other as though wedding a man is a challenge. Austen adds this with the end goal to demonstrate how ladies needed to satisfy elevated requirements in light of the fact that the main way a lady is fruitful is through marriage.
"A woman's creative energy is exceptionally fast; it hops from profound respect to love to marriage in a minute" (Austen 28).
In this statement, it is stating that ladies hop into connections quick without giving it a chance to create at a legitimate pace. They additionally have this dream like picture of how marriage and love ought to be. The creator included this statement in light of the fact that amid this day and age, ladies and men got hitched inside a limited capacity to focus time. Generally, because of cash being included or having the capacity to acquire a specific rank or place in a family.
"A lady must have an exhaustive learning of music, singing, drawing, moving, and current dialects, to merit the world" (Austen 39).
Ladies had particular jobs in the public arena that had little training and work. For instance, appeared through the statement, ladies are customarily expected to be amusement to pull in men. This difficulties sexual orientation jobs since Austen records these undertakings that demonstrate no genuine significance to society with the end goal to indicate incongruity.
"'Be that as it may, if a lady is inclined toward a man, and does not attempt to hide it, he should discover it out'" (Austen 23).
Sex jobs are plainly appeared through this statement as it is a typical conviction that ladies appreciate playing a round of 'feline and mouse' to engage a suitor.
"I am not sentimental you know. I never was. I ask just an agreeable home; and thinking about Mr. Collins' character, associations, and circumstance throughout everyday life, I am persuaded that my possibility of bliss with him is as reasonable, as the vast majority can gloat on entering the marriage state" (Austen 123).
Charlotte Lucas pursues sexual orientation jobs by wedding men for their economic wellbeing and riches. This fits sexual orientation jobs on the grounds that most ladies wed to please men since they care most about their social class. Despite the fact that Elizabeth negates this thought by dismissing Mr. Collins, Charlotte trusts that she will be glad by wedding him in spite of scarcely knowing him and demonstrating no fascination towards him.
"'My explanations behind wedding are, first, that I think it a correct thing for each priest in simple conditions (such as myself) to set the case of marriage in his area. Also, that I am persuaded it will add incredibly to my satisfaction'" (Austen 103).
This backings sexual orientation jobs in light of the fact that rich men wed for joy. This additionally underpins the primary sentence of the novel since it guarantees that men with fortune are in the need of a spouse. Mr. Collins fortune is that of blessedness and what he thinks about a managing guideline for wedding a young ladies.
"They may wish numerous things other than his joy; they may wish his expansion of riches and result, they may wish him to wed a young lady who has all the significance of cash, extraordinary associations, and pride" (Austen 134).


"'Be that as it may, I reveal to you what, Miss Lizzy, on the off chance that you bring it into your make a beeline for continue rejecting each offer of marriage along these lines, you will never get a spouse by any means and I am certain I don't realize who is to keep up you when your dad is dead'" (Austen 111).
This shows how Elizabeth needs a spouse soon before her dad kicks the bucket since then shes will have no methods for being monetarily bolstered. This likewise demonstrates how ladies have almost no function openings so they need to depend on their better half for cash.
"That it is common with young women to dismiss the addresses of the man whom they subtly mean to acknowledge when the primary applies for his support"
(Austen 104)
This statement implies that men imagine that if a lady is stating no to them, they extremely mean yes or that they are endeavoring to be legitimate. Mr. Collins does not accept her reaction as dismissal, but rather her endeavoring to be legitimate as lady.
"'Also, what's your opinion of my better half? Is it accurate to say that he isn't an enchanting man? I am certain my sisters should all begrudge me. I just expectation they may have a large portion of my good fortunes. They should all go to Brighton. That is the place to get spouses. What a pity is, mamm, we didn't all go'" (Austen 300).
This speaks to sexual orientation jobs since Lydia is flaunting that she got hitched before her sisters. This is on the grounds that it I vital for a ladies to achieve accomplishment in the public eye by getting hitched. Lydia flaunts as he isn't the most seasoned little girls, despite the fact that her marriage with Wickham did not depend on genuine romance.
	"


	________________


Character Sketches
A character outline is a composed depiction of a character in a story. In composing a character draw, you are to watch a character in a novel to get a vibe of what this character is extremely similar to, and afterward hand-off that data to another peruser in a reasonable brief way.
There are 6 viewpoints by which most creators depict their characters. They are:
1. Physical description
2. What the character says/does
3. What the character thinks
4. What others say to or about the character
5. What others do to the character
6. The setting in which the character is found
For a character draw, you should utilize citations from the book to help your perceptions. Utilize quotes and incidental reference. Incorporate something like one citation for every case.
Elizabeth
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "the excellent articulation of her dull eyes" (Austen 24).
* "'What congrats will then stream in! I advance to Mr. Darcy:－but let me not intrude on you, Sir.－You won't express gratitude toward me for keeping you from the charming opposite of that young woman, whose brilliant eyes are additionally criticizing me'" (Austen 91).
	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "She is middle of the road; however not nice looking enough to entice me… " (Austen 13). - Mr. Darcy
* "'Lizzy isn't somewhat superior to the others; and I am certain she isn't half so nice looking as Jane, nor half as genial as Lydia'" (Austen 6). - Mrs. Bennet
* "'They are for the most part senseless and uninformed like different young ladies; yet Lizzy has something a greater amount of briskness than her sisters'" (Austen 7). - Mr. Bennet
* "' You exceed expectations such a great amount in the move, Miss Eliza… " (Austen 27). - Sir William
* "'I Have been thinking about the simple incredible delight with a couple of fine eyes notwithstanding a pretty ladies can offer'" (Austen 27). - Mr. Darcy
	What the Character Says/Does
* "'Compliments dependably shock you, and me never'" (Austen 16).
* "'however I generally talk what I think'"(Austen 16).
* "'A woman's creative ability is exceptionally fast; it bounces from deference to adore, from affection to marriage in a minute'" (Austen 28).
* "Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was
resolved to go to her, however the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no pony lady, strolling was her solitary option. She announced her goals" (Austen 32).
* "I am not one of those young women (if such young women there are) who are so challenging as to chance their joy on the possibility of being asked a second time. I am flawlessly genuine in my refusal [to wed Mr. Collins]" (Austen 105).
* "'Insolent young lady!' said Elizabeth to herself." (Austen 93).
	What Others Do to the Character
* "It was for the most part clear at whatever point they met at whatever point they met, that he admired her; and to her it was similarly obvious that Jane was yielding the inclination… " (Austen 22).




	What the Character Thinks
* "The tumult of her brain was currently horrendously incredible. She knew not how to help herself, and from real shortcoming sat down and sobbed for 30 minutes… That she ought to get an offer of marriage from Mr.Darcy" (Austen 189).
* "She couldn't think about Darcy's leaving kent, without recollecting that his cousin was to run with him; however Colonel Fitzwilliam had clarified that he had no goals by any means, and pleasant he was, she didn't intend to be troubled about him" (Austen 184).




	The Setting Where the Character is Found
* "The following day opened another scene at Longbourn. . . On discovering, Mrs. Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the more youthful young ladies together. . ." (Austen 102).
* "Elizabeth, as they drove along, looked for the main appearance of Pemberley Woods with some irritation; and when finally they turned in at the hotel, her spirits were in a high ripple" (Austen 235).






Darcy
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "Mr. Darcy before long attracted the consideration the room by his fine, tall individual, great looking highlights, honorable mein; and the report which was by and large course inside five minutes after his passageway of his having ten thousand every year" (Austen 12).


	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "The courteous fellows articulated him to be the fine figure of a man, the women pronounced he was substantially handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was taken a gander at with incredible profound respect for about a large portion of the night, till his behavior gave a disturb which turned the tide of prominence, for he was found to be glad, to be over his organization, or more being satisfied; and not all his extensive domain in Derbyshire could then spare him from having a most prohibiting, upsetting, face, and being contemptible to be contrasted and his companion" (Austen 12).
* "He was the proudest, most upsetting man on the planet, and everyone trusted that he could never come there again" (Austen 13).
* "'Indeed, Mama, you are mixed up,' said Elizabeth, reddening for her mom. 'You very mixed up Mr. Darcy. He just implied that there were not such an assortment of individuals to be met with in the nation as around the local area, which you should recognize to be valid'" (Austen 43).
* "Bingley was charmed to Darcy by the effortlessness, transparency, pliability of his temper . . . had the firmest dependence, and of his judgment the most noteworthy assessment. In understanding Darcy was the prevalent . . . Darcy was cunning. He was in the meantime haughty, saved, and picky, and his conduct, however very much reared, were not welcoming . . . Darcy was ceaselessly giving offense" (Austen 18).
* Mrs. Bennet: "that Lizzy does not lose much by not suiting his extravagant; for he is a most offensive, awful man, not in the slightest degree worth satisfying. So high thus vain that there was no persisting him. He strolled here, and he strolled there liking himself so extremely incredible! Not nice looking enough to hit the dance floor with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set downs. I very loathe the man" (Austen 15).
* Charlotte: "Mr. Darcy isn't so well worth tuning in to as his companion" (Austen 20).
* "Miss Bingley was immersed by Mr. Darcy" (Austen 36).
* "'Good sky!' cried Elizabeth; 'yet how could that be－How could his will be disregarded－Why did not you look for legitimate change'" (Austen 78)?
* "'What is Mr. Darcy to me, implore, that I ought to fear him? I am certain we owe him no such specific respectfulness as to be obliged to state nothing he dislike to hear'" (Austen 97).
* " Mr.Darcy recognized himself to be under the best commitments to my dad's dynamic administrator . . 1. I am persuaded that he felt it to be as much an obligation of appreciation to him, as to fondness to myself" (Austen 79)
* "'Heaven forbid!－That would be the best mishap of all!－To discover a man pleasant whom one is resolved to hate!－Do not wish me such an underhanded'" (Austen 89).
	What the Character Says/Does
* " There is ugliness in every one of expressions of the human experience which women in some cases stoop to utilize for captivation." (Austen 40)
* "Mr. Darcy moved just once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being acquainted with some other woman, and spent whatever remains of the night in strolling about the room, talking once in a while to one of his own gathering" (Austen 13).
* "Mr. Darcy had at first barely enabled her [Elizabeth] to be beautiful; he had taken a gander at her without adoration at the ball; and when they next met, he took a gander at her just to reprimand" (Austen 24). He starts to appreciate Elizabeth, seeing her dull eyes.




	What Others Do to the Character
* " And grasping her hand, he would have offered it to Mr. Darcy, who, however to a great degree astounded, was not reluctant to get it, she moved back" (Austen 27)


	What the Character Thinks
* "'The nation,' said Darcy, 'can all in all supply however few subjects for such an examination. In a nation neighborhood you move in an extremely limited and unvarying society'"
(Austen 42)
* About Elizabeth: "'She is passable; however not good looking enough to entice me, and I am no silliness at present to offer result to young women who are insulted by other men" (Austen 13).
* "' And to all she should yet include something more significant, in the enhancement of her brain by broad perusing'" (Austen 39)




	The Setting Where the Character is Found
*

















Lady Catherine
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "Woman Catherine was a tall, expansive lady, with emphatically checked highlights, which may once have been great looking" (Austen 159).


	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "Permit me, coincidentally, to watch, my reasonable cousin, that I don't figure the notice and benevolence of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the slightest of the preferences in the ability to offer. You will discover her conduct past anything I can depict. . ." (Austen 194).
* Darcy's close relative: "'You know obviously that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy were sisters; subsequently that she is auntie to the present Mr. Darcy'" (Austen 81).
* Mr.Collins: " Lady Catherine won't think the more awful of you for being basically dressed. She gets a kick out of the chance to have the qualification of rank protected." (Austen 168)
* ¨Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and confiding in their assessment of her-their sentiment of everyone would dependably match, there was an anxiety, an intrigue


	What the Character Says/Does
* ". . . what's more, ask tell from me, that she can't hope to exceed expectations, on the off chance that she doesn't rehearse a lot" (Austen 169)




	What Others Do to the Character




	What the Character Thinks




	The Setting Where the Character is Found










Key Vocabulary
Characterize and audit the accompanying key vocabulary for the novel. Likewise, monitor other vocabulary that is new or new.


Word
	Definition
	Unfamiliar Words/Phrases
	odious
	Extremely unpleasant or repulsive
	"Mercenary Marriage" - Marriage for money.


"Caprice"- Impulsive change of mine


"Pliancy" - Flexibility


"Supercilious" - disdainful
"Vogue" - popularity


"Alacrity" - cheerful willingness


"Destitute" - poor


"Querulous" - complaining


"Panegyric" - compliment


"Face to face chat"- a private discussion between two individuals.


	haughty
	arrogant
	fastidious
	Meticulous or very attentive to detail
	veneration
	Great respect
	pompous
	Solemn or of self-importance
	taciturn
	Untalkative or saying little
	complaisance
	Complying with a wish or command
	imprudent
	Being rash or not showing care
	volatility
	Liability to change rapidly and unpredictably
	disdain
feeling that somebody or something is disgraceful of one's thought or regard; scorn
	exuberant
	Filled with lively energy and excitement
	petulance
	Being childish and bad-tempered
	acrimony
	Bitterness or ill feeling
	fortnight
	A period of two weeks in British terms
	brevity
	Concise or use of exact words
	ungracious
	Not polite or friendly
	saucy
	Cheeky, bold
	frankness
the nature of being open, genuine, and coordinate in discourse or composing
	abominably
	Very unpleasantly or unfairly
	wit
	clever or apt humor
	censure
	expression of formal disapproval
	vexed
	Problematic, annoyed, frustrated, or worried
	Study Questions
Chapters 1-12
At the principal ball, what actualities does the storyteller give about Darcy? How do the visitors see him? What is Elizabeth's initial introduction of him? Why?


At the principal ball, the storyteller portrays Darcy as a rich, good looking man. At first, the visitors surmise that he ought to be regarded as a result of his fortune. Be that as it may, as they meet him, they consider him as a proud and prideful man. Elizabethś early introduction of him was that he is judgmental and loaded proudly in light of the fact that she catches him and Bingley discussing her and Elizabeth. He says that Elizabeth is no place close as good looking as Jane, so he isn't intrigued. He isn't keen on any ladies there in light of the fact that he looks down on them. This influences how Elizabeth treats or considers him for the following couple of parts.


Who is Charlotte Lucas? What remark does she make about Jane? What do you assume is the explanation for such a remark?


Charlotte Lucas is Elizabeth's closest companion, and little girl of William Lucas. Charlotte Lucas remarks that Jane should "secure her man" and afterward begin to look all starry eyed at. Charlotte Lucas makes this remark since she feels that there is sufficient relaxation time in the wake of being hitched to genuinely experience passionate feelings for.


At Sir William Lucas' social event, how does Darcy act around Elizabeth? At Netherfield, how are their discussions?


At Sir William Lucas' social event, Darcy is an exceptionally cool, self important man who feels too useful for any lady at the get-together guaranteeing that she is a normal looking lady who isn't "sufficiently attractive to entice him". Whenever Darcy and Elizabeth are at Netherfield, their discussions were shy of next to zero significance as Elizabeth had caught Darcy guaranteeing that she didn't be anything exceptional to take a gander at. Along these lines making her put little exertion in keeping up the discussion with Mr. Darcy.


Why, do you believe, is Darcy pulled in to Elizabeth? What engaging characteristics does she have?


The engaging characteristics that Mr.Darcy is pulled in to with regards to Elizabeth is she is difficult to get and she has are her eyes, which for the most part pulled in him. She is additionally not quite the same as other ladies since she doesn't pursue with how a run of the mill lady amid that time should act, such as having solid will and not wanting to get her "hands grimy".


Charlotte Lucas says, "Bliss in marriage is completely a matter of shot." What does this announcement uncover about her? Do you concur with her announcement? Clarify.


Charlotte's announcement uncovers that everybody ought to wed for riches or societal position before contemplating satisfaction. Thusly, bliss is made after their marriage or it is negligible fortunes that the couple has an association after marriage by any means. I don't concur with her announcement since bliss ought to be thought of before riches or economic wellbeing. Individuals ought to wed for affection.


Chapters 13-24
Whenever Wickham and Elizabeth initially meet, what report does Wickham give Elizabeth about Darcy? What second impression does Wickham make on her? What is your impression of Wickham?


Wickham communicates the conniving of Darcy by giving an affair where Darcy's dad wills him to give Wickham the situation of minister, however Darcy declined to make Wickham a pastor once his dad had past away. Wickham's methods for discourse and chatting with Elizabeth establishes a sentimental second connection on her.


How does Elizabeth react to Mr. Collins' proposition? What does her reaction uncover about her character?


Elizabeth denies Mr. Collins' proposition in the most respectful and fragile way that she is prepared to do. Her reaction to Mr. Collins' shows how Elizabeth isn't keen on wedding to enhance her own budgetary status. Rather, Elizabeth needs to wed somebody whom she will love and who will bring her bliss. "You couldn't make me cheerful, and I am persuaded that I am the last ladies on the planet who might make you so" (Austen 105).


What occasion leaves Jane feeling discouraged? For what reason is Elizabeth irate at Bingley, his sisters, and Darcy?


Jane feels dejected after Bingley, his sisters, and Darcy return back to London. Caroline Bingley composes back that Bingley is becoming friends with Miss Darcy and they intend to remain in London for temporarily, so Jane reveals to herself that it is alright and that she will get over him in the long run. Elizabeth is irate at his sisters and Darcy since she trusts that they are attempting to urge Bingley to wed Miss Darcy. This is basically on the grounds that it will bring them closer as they are both well off families. Elizabeth is frantic at Bingley on the grounds that it appears as though he was driving on Jane. As her sister, she despises this unfairness and trusts her sister merited better.


How does Wickham's story extend Elizabeth's partiality against Darcy?


Wickham's story develop Elizabeth's preference against Darcy by expressing how Darcy did not pursue his dad's will. Thusly, Elizabeth proceeds or reinforces her conviction that Darcy is an arrogant and prideful man that does not think about anyone other than himself. Elizabeth as of now has that inclination after he affronts her appearance in the start of the story, so Wickham's story consoles her that her sentiments are substantial.


Do you share Elizabeth's stun at Charlotte's commitment to Mr. Collins? Clarify.


I don't share Elizabeth's stun at Charlotte's commitment to Mr. Collins since we definitely realize that Charlotte trusts that individuals ought to wed for riches or economic wellbeing as opposed to adore. This is demonstrated when she reveals to Jane that she should "secure the pack." Therefore, it's anything but a stun that she would wed Mr. Collins for his riches societal position.




Chapters 25-38
What new intrigue does Wickham have? What are the purposes for this new intrigue? Does Elizabeth dislike? Clarify.
Wickham sets her sights on another lady named Miss. Ruler since she acquires a vast whole of cash which he needs as he isn't also off as she may be. Be that as it may, Elizabeth does not dislike since she can comprehend his thoughts regarding why he would require the cash.




To whom is Lady Catherine de Bourgh related? How might you portray her treatment of Elizabeth?
Woman Catherine de Bourgh is the sister of Anne Darcy, mother of FitzWilliam Darcy and Georgiana Darcy. Woman Catherine de Bourgh attempts to scare Elizabeth by endeavoring to instruct her on legitimate female behavior since she supposes Eliza is ill-advised and low class.


What essential data does Elizabeth find out about Darcy from Colonel Fitzwilliam? How can she respond?


The vital data that Colonel Fitzwilliam discloses to Elizabeth that Mr.Darcy is extremely defensive of his companion, which is probably alluding to Bingley, and that he was simply ensuring that he was not settling on an awful choice and not getting himself into an imprudent marriage. She responds by suspecting that Colonel Fitzwilliam was implying at the possibility that he needs to wed her and this shows by how her face flushes with red everytime she thinks some about his commentings are alluding to it.


The tale achieves its first peak, or sensational defining moment, in this area. In what scene does this peak happen? What addresses hang in the peruser's psyche after this scene?


The primary peak is when Darcy proposes to Elizabeth. This scene happens after Elizabeth's connection with Colonel Fitzwilliam and discovers how Darcy impacted the separation among Jane and Bingley. Elizabeth rejects Darcy and clarifies why she is preference against him. He leaves, which makes the perusers question what will occur next between them.


What impact does Darcy's letter have on Elizabeth? What does she understand about herself? About her family?


Darcy's letter influences Elizabeth since it uncovers the certainties against Mr. Wickham. This influences her to understand that she has a partiality against Mr. Wickham and Mr. Darcy, which influenced how she thought and treated them. This makes her likewise understand that her family is humiliating, which harms her. She can't educate Jane concerning this letter since it will hurt Jane to know how her actual affections for Bingley were not there or appeared.




Chapters 39-50
What two privileged insights concerning Darcy does Elizabeth uncover to Jane? What concern does Elizabeth express to her dad?


The two insider facts that Elizabeth educates Jane regarding Darcy is his proposition to Elizabeth and the letter he sent concerning George Wickham and how really insidious he is. They additionally chose to be close-lipped regarding Mr. Wickham because of the remote possibility that nobody will trust them and furthermore in light of the fact that wickham was leaving soon. Elizabeth discloses to her dad that she is worried about Lydia's character and conduct.


What does Elizabeth find out about Darcy from the servant at Pemberley? At the point when Darcy shows up, what astonishes her about his conduct?


Elizabeth discovers that Darcyś servant at Pemberley regards and reveres him, which is particular since she has a partiality towards Darcy for being a childish and prideful man. At the point when Darcy shows up, she is shocked on the grounds that Darcy is so conscious and liberal towards Mr. what's more, Mrs. Gardiner. She sees another side to him that she didn't see in Netherfield.


What emergency happens including Lydia? How is the emergency settled?


The emergency that happens including Lydia was that she fled with Mr.Wickham and she would have destroyed the notoriety of herself and her sisters. This emergency was settled when Mr.Bennet chose to pay Mr.Wickham ten thousand pounds with the end goal to have him wed Lydia and keep from outrage from occurring.


Which parts give lighthearted element from the mounting anticipation about Lydia's and Elizabeth's prospects in this segment? What comic occasions happen in these sections?


Part 50 gives lighthearted element from the mounting tension about Lydia's and Elizabeth's future since Mrs. Bennet gets news that Lydia has been hitched and as opposed to addressing who she has hitched she bounces up with energy that one of her little girls has hitched finally notwithstanding her not realizing it is Wickham. This shows entertainment through Mrs. Bennett's adolescent practices since she is acting like a tyke would to energizing news


In Chapter 42, what strategies does Austen use to portray the weaknesses of the Bennet's' marriage? In what ways is it a fizzled marriage?
In Chapter 42, Austen utilizes the inward contemplations of Elizabeth to depict the inadequacies of the Bennet's' marriage. Austen uncovers that Eliza dependably suspected that her dad was a lousy spouse yet smothered those musings because of him being a decent dad to her. Elizabeth concedes that her dad profited from her mom's numbness and in this way did not so much feel slanted to make her cheerful.


________________


Chapters 51-61
Portray Lydia and Wickham as love birds. How does Darcy understand the family emergency Lydia has caused? How does Elizabeth get some answers concerning Darcy's activities?


As love birds, Lydia is exceptionally bombastic about her being hitched and appears as though she profoundly is profoundly enamored with Wickham. She likewise talks exceptionally of her better half. Wickham does not appear to respond her emotions. Darcy illuminates the emergency that Lydia foundations for her family by satisfying the charge the couple asks, for satisfies Wickham's obligations, and advises Mr.Gardner of where there area was. Elizabeth gets some answers concerning Darcy's activities first by Lydia neglecting it and after that she drives it out of her auntie to inform her regarding it.


For what reason does Lady Catherine interview Elizabeth? How does Elizabeth react?


She needs to ensure Elizabeth isn't having any desire to wed her nephew and that him and his cousin will have the capacity to be locked in. She reacts by confronting Lady Catherine and not consenting to not wed Darcy.


What do Elizabeth and Darcy say to one another on their long walk? What has each gained from the other?


Darcy begins off with revealing to Elizabeth how regardless he adores her and how his sentiments towards her never showed signs of change. He at that point inquired as to whether her sentiments towards him have changed or remained the equivalent. Elizabeth at that point uncovers to Darcy that her emotions towards him has changed radically changed. This acknowledgment at that point made Darcy propose and towards the end, they were locked in.


Guarding her entitlement to wed Darcy, Elizabeth discloses to Lady Catherine, "He is a man of honor; I am a courteous fellow's girl; so far we are equivalent." In what different ways are Elizabeth and Darcy breaks even with?


Elizabeth and Darcy are equals


Thinking about the story's decision, how might you depict Elizabeth? Okay call her a women's activist? Clarify.


Elizabeth was a solid, autonomous lady who talked her brain and did not cherish for economic wellbeing not at all like other ladies amid that day and age. She is definitely not a women's activist since regardless she acknowledges the jobs of people. She simply does not acknowledge the job of financial class influencing connections.










Summative Project Options
Since we have completed the novel, the time has come to finish the summative undertaking. For this unit, you may pick the venture you might want to finish.
Decorum Pamphlet - Write a 4-6 page handout depicting proper conduct in social circumstances amid this era. You may address the customs of making presentations, pursuing, moving, and making discussion. Clarify whether the rules were distinctive for people. Expound on the significance of good conduct in affable society. Address regardless of whether the standards of conduct were distinctive for the diverse classes.


Image Collection - Create 10 images to speak to characters, key plot occasions, and topics from the content. Furthermore, compose 1-2 sentences for each clarifying why it is huge.


Motion picture Critique - Watch one the movie adjustments of the novel and compose a 2-3 page investigate tending to the understandings by the chief, including: huge contrasts in the plot (What scenes and characters from the book are precluded, changed, or consolidated?), consistency of perspective, throwing of the characters (Do the performing artists assuming the jobs coordinate pictures made by Austen's improvement of her characters in the novel?), and production of tension (What is picked up or lost by realizing the story will have a cheerful consummation? How does the film make anticipation?)
Film adaptations options include:
1940. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Robert Z. Leonard (MGM Studios); on-screen characters: Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier.
1985. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Cyril Coke (BBC); on-screen characters: Elizabeth Garvie and David Rintoul.
1996. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Simon Langton (BBC); performing artists: Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth.
2005. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Joe Wright (Universal International Pictures); performing artists: Keira Knightley and Matthew Macfadyen.
2004. Lady of the hour and Prejudice, coordinated by Gurinder Chadha (Miramax); on-screen characters: Aishwarya Rai and Martin Henderson.
2016. Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, coordinated by Burr Steers (Lionsgate); on-screen characters: Lily James and Sam Riley.


https://i.ytimg.com/vi/jp-JUU_pJ0c/hqdefault.jpg
________________



Pride and Prejudice Fact Sheet


full title  ·  Pride and Prejudice
author  · Jane Austen
type of work  · Novel
genre  · Comedy of manners
language  · English
time and place composed · England, somewhere in the range of 1796 and 1813
date of first publication  · 1813
publisher  · Thomas Egerton of London
narrator  · Third-person omniscient
peak · Mr. Darcy's proposition to Elizabeth (Volume 3, Chapter 16)
protagonist · Elizabeth Bennet
adversary · Snobbish class-awareness (typified by Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Miss Bingley)
setting (time) · Some point amid the Napoleonic Wars (1797– 1815)
setting (place) · Longbourn, in rural England
perspective · The tale is essentially told from Elizabeth Bennet's perspective.
falling activity · The two sections of the novel after Darcy's proposition
tense  · Past tense
portending · The main prominent case of hinting happens when Elizabeth visits Pemberley, Darcy's home, in Volume 3, Chapter 1. Her energy about the home anticipates her inevitable acknowledgment of her adoration for its proprietor.
tone · Comic—or, in Jane Austen's own words, "light and splendid, and shimmering"
themes  · Love; Reputation; Class
motifs  · Courtship; Journeys
images · The tale is light on imagery, with the exception of on the visit to Pemberley, which is depicted as being "neither formal, nor erroneously enhanced," and is obviously intended to symbolize the character of Mr. Darcy.