Pride and Prejudice
By Jane Austen
 Image result for pride and prejudice

British Literature
Collection 2: Gender Roles
Book Project
________________


Table of Contents


Background Notes        2
Character Map        3
Verbal Irony Chart        4
Dialogue Analysis Chart         5
Dialectical Journal        6
Character Sketches        9
Key Vocabulary        11
Study Questions        12
Summative Project Options        19
Novel Fact Sheet        20
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/hall/7/7e/Scenes_from_Pride_and_Prejudice.png

________________


Background Notes


Setting and Characters
	Author's Background
* Hertfordshire, England (late 1700's to mid 1800's)
* Mrs. Bennet is anxious to offer her five little girls (esp. after Mr. Bingley, a youthful, rich single man, comes to town)
* The Family: (not rich, so must find husband)
   * Mr. and Mrs. Bennet
* Daughters: Jane, Elizabeth (Lizzie), Mary, Lydia, and Kitty
* The Friends:
   * Mr. Collins
   * Charlotte Lucas
   * Sir William and Lady Lucas
   * Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner
   * Mr. and Mrs. Phillips
* The Newcomers:
   * Charles and Caroline Bingley
   * Mr. and Mrs. Hurst
   * George Winkman
   * Lady Catherine and Miss De Bourgh
   * Colonel Fitzwilliam
   * Georgiana Darcy
* Jane Austen was conceived in a little town in south-focal England in 1775 (was poor, however instructed and regarded)
* Father was a county minister
* Austen portrays the English privileged in light of the fact that that is the place she lived
* With inconspicuous, amusing mind, Austen catches significance of economic wellbeing in English society and pretentiousness of the affluent privileged
* Austen shares a ton for all intents and purpose with Lizzie Bennet since she was socially second rate, had wry, energetic funniness
* Social status turns into a noteworthy issue among Lizzie and Darcy. Contrasted with Darcy, the Bennets appear to be low-class.
	Historical Context
	Themes
* Beginning of the Industrial Revolution, so fabricate starts to supplant farming. (One-sided between new cash versus old cash)
* Improved communication and transportation
* Influencers: Prince of Walks (the future King George IV, old cash) and Beau Brummel (grandson of a worker and child of an independent man, new cash)
* New cash is endeavoring to drive their way on, so the old cash isn't glad about it
* Napoleonic Wars (1792-1815), ⅓ of British armed force and naval force bites the dust.
* War prompts unsanitary conditions, poor wages, high expenses, swelling, stressed assets, and no occupations for the veterans (decimates economy, takes a very long time to recoup)
* Recovering from war and having specialized progressions, there is an ascent of the working class, religious restoration, and mold change (Victorian time)
	* Pride, Prejudice, and First Impressions
* Courtship, Marriage, and Relationships
* Civility, Manners, and Social Class


Character Map


Verbal Irony
Jane Austen's storyteller and characters frequently say a certain something and mean something different - they utilize verbal incongruity. The following are a few precedents from the content. Alongside every case of verbal incongruity, clarify the speaker's actual significance.


What They Said
	What They Meant
"It is a reality all around recognized, that a solitary man possessing a favorable luck must be in need of a spouse."


* Narrator
This is a case of verbal incongruity in light of the fact that not every single rich man need to get hitched. A few men despite what might be expected, wish to remain single with the end goal to maintain a strategic distance from the issues that accompany a relationship. They would likewise need to be reliant on themselves and not accommodate others monetarily.
"I am superbly persuaded… that Mr. Darcy has no imperfection."


* Elizabeth (while nursing Jane at Netherfield)
This shows verbal incongruity since Mr. Darcy's identity contains numerous characteristics, for example, gaudiness, that others would for the most part think to harm their character consequently ordering it as an imperfection. By having Elizabeth say this, Austen makes a wry tone that jabs fun at Mr. Darcy's liberal persona.
"He snickers, and smiles, and has intercourse to all of us. I am monstrously glad for him."


* Mr. Bennet (to Caroline about Wickham)
This would be verbal incongruity since it is intended to influence Mr.Wickham to appear to be a decent individual to everyone. Be that as it may,
Mr. Bennet is truly saying that Mr. Wickham is circling from young lady to young lady and not showing decent characteristics.
"In any case, I trust that I should date [my love for Darcy] from my first observing his excellent grounds at Pemberley."


* Elizabeth (to Jane)
This is a case of verbal incongruity on the grounds that in the start of the novel, Elizabeth makes a decision about ladies for wedding for cash, for example, her companion Charlotte Lucas. Be that as it may, now she will date Darcy in the wake of seeing his huge domain. This demonstrates she is repudiating her convictions by following the generalization of ladies wedding for riches and a high societal position.
	________________


Dialogue Analysis
One of Austen's qualities as a creator was her capacity to make clever discourse. The style of Austen's composing is surely lifted and rich, however her utilization of discourse is especially critical for her one of a kind strategy for conveyance. The trades between her characters frequently stay extremely formal and open yet are at the same time accused of enthusiasm and individual inclination. Pick one entry of discourse from the content and give a nitty gritty investigation of the trade and its significance.


Dialogue
	Analysis
"Whenever Jane and Elizabeth were distant from everyone else, the previous, who had been wary in her acclaim of Mr. Bingley previously, communicated to her sister how particularly she appreciated him.

'He is exactly what a young fellow should be,' said she, 'sensible, affable, vivacious; and I never observed such upbeat conduct!- such a great amount of straightforwardness, with such immaculate great rearing!'

'He is additionally great looking,' answered Elizabeth, 'which a young fellow should in like manner to be, in the event that he can. His character is in this manner finish.'

'I was especially complimented by his requesting that I move a second time. I didn't expect such a compliment.'

'Did not you? I improved the situation you. In any case, that is one extraordinary contrast between us. Compliments dependably shock you, and me never. What could be more normal than his asking you once more? He couldn't resist seeing that you were capable multiple times as lovely as each other lady in the room. Forget about it to his heroism as each other lady in the room. Not this time to his valor for that. All things considered, he surely is extremely pleasant, and I give you leave to like him. You have preferred numerous a dumber individual'" (Austen 16).
This trade among Jane and Elizabeth is filled with an energy for getting a man that has great character as well as great looks. Jane Austen incorporates this statement to demonstrate the equivalent desires that people have while looking for a critical other. This negates men are the main ones that care about the physical highlights of ladies as it is demonstrated that ladies additionally are keen on satisfying their stylish models. Notwithstanding, this is as yet pervasive in the present society however for the two sexual orientations which is in opposition to Austen's primary thoughts.
















Dialectical Journal
Directing Question: In what ways does the content feature or investigate conventional sex jobs?


Key Quote
	Analysis
"When she is secure of him, there will be relaxation for beginning to look all starry eyed at as much as she chuses" (Austen 23).
Wedding a man is the main route for a lady to guarantee their fortune amid the Victorian ages. Despite the fact that this appears to be very chauvinist, amid that day and age ladies had little openings for work thusly a man's riches is the on option for a ladies' fortune.



"'Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I conveyed what needs be exceptionally well seconds ago, when I was prodding Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton'" (Austen 25)?
This statement is huge on the grounds that it underpins the possibility of conventional sexual orientation jobs amid the Victorian age and past that. It is regularly trusted that ladies bother other men with the end goal to get the consideration of the men they need.
"A mind-blowing matter was to her little girls hitched; it's comfort was visiting and news" (Austen 7).
This statement outlines the job of a mother in the Victorian time, which is to discover a spouse for their little girls with the end goal to get a fiscally steady life for them. Austen chose to incorporate this statement since it demonstrates how ladies had next to no function chances to accommodate themselves so they needed to depend on their spouses monetarily.
"I could scarcely keep my face extremely unreasonable to come by any means! For what reason must she be rushing about the nation since her sister had a cool? Her hair so messy, so blowsy" (Austen 36)!
This statement speaks to sexual orientation jobs in light of the fact that in customary society, ladies needed to stress over their magnificence and appearance with the end goal to interest men. At the point when Elizabeth comes to Netherfield, the Bingley sisters demonstrate the perspectives of conventional ladies and how they judge each other as though wedding a man is a challenge. Austen adds this with the end goal to indicate how ladies needed to satisfy elevated requirements in light of the fact that the main way a lady is effective is through marriage.
"A woman's creative energy is extremely fast; it hops from appreciation to love to marriage in a minute" (Austen 28).
In this statement, it is stating that ladies hop into connections quick without giving it a chance to create at an appropriate pace. They additionally have this dream like picture of how marriage and love ought to be. The creator included this statement in light of the fact that amid this day and age, ladies and men got hitched inside a limited capacity to focus time. Generally, because of cash being included or having the capacity to acquire a specific rank or place in a family.
"A lady must have an intensive information of music, singing, drawing, moving, and present day dialects, to merit the world" (Austen 39).
Ladies had particular jobs in the public arena that had little training and work. For instance, appeared through the statement, ladies are customarily expected to be amusement to draw in men. This difficulties sexual orientation jobs since Austen records these assignments that demonstrate no genuine significance to society with the end goal to indicate incongruity.
"'Yet, on the off chance that a lady is inclined toward a man, and does not attempt to disguise it, he should discover it out'" (Austen 23).
Sexual orientation jobs are unmistakably appeared through this statement as it is a typical conviction that ladies appreciate playing a round of 'feline and mouse' to engage a suitor.
"I am not sentimental you know. I never was. I ask just an agreeable home; and thinking about Mr. Collins' character, associations, and circumstance throughout everyday life, I am persuaded that my possibility of satisfaction with him is as reasonable, as a great many people can brag on entering the marriage state" (Austen 123).
Charlotte Lucas pursues sexual orientation jobs by wedding men for their economic wellbeing and riches. This fits sexual orientation jobs in light of the fact that most ladies wed to please men since they care most about their social class. Despite the fact that Elizabeth negates this thought by dismissing Mr. Collins, Charlotte trusts that she will be cheerful by wedding him regardless of scarcely knowing him and demonstrating no fascination towards him.
"'My purposes behind wedding are, first, that I think it a correct thing for each priest in simple conditions (such as myself) to set the case of marriage in his area. Furthermore, that I am persuaded it will add enormously to my joy'" (Austen 103).
This backings sex jobs on the grounds that well off men wed for satisfaction. This additionally underpins the main sentence of the novel since it asserts that men with fortune are in the need of a spouse. Mr. Collins fortune is that of sacredness and what he thinks about a directing standard for wedding a young ladies.
"They may wish numerous things other than his bliss; they may wish his expansion of riches and result, they may wish him to wed a young lady who has all the significance of cash, extraordinary associations, and pride" (Austen 134).


"'In any case, I reveal to you what, Miss Lizzy, in the event that you bring it into your go to continue rejecting each offer of marriage along these lines, you will never get a spouse by any stretch of the imagination and I am certain I don't realize who is to keep up you when your dad is dead'" (Austen 111).
This demonstrates how Elizabeth needs a spouse soon before her dad passes on the grounds that then shes will have no methods for being fiscally bolstered. This additionally demonstrates how ladies have practically zero function openings so they need to depend on their better half for cash.
"That it is regular with young women to dismiss the addresses of the man whom they subtly mean to acknowledge when the principal applies for his support"
(Austen 104)
This statement implies that men imagine that if a lady is stating no to them, they extremely mean yes or that they are endeavoring to be appropriate. Mr. Collins does not accept her reaction as dismissal, but rather her attempting to be appropriate as lady.
"'Also, what's your opinion of my significant other? Is it safe to say that he isn't an enchanting man? I am certain my sisters should all begrudge me. I just expectation they may have a large portion of my good fortunes. They should all go to Brighton. That is the place to get spouses. What a pity is, mamm, we didn't all go'" (Austen 300).
This speaks to sex jobs since Lydia is flaunting that she got hitched before her sisters. This is on the grounds that it I critical for a ladies to achieve accomplishment in the public eye by getting hitched. Lydia flaunts as he isn't the most seasoned girls, despite the fact that her marriage with Wickham did not depend on genuine romance.
	"


	________________


Character Sketches
A character draw is a composed portrayal of a character in a story. In composing a character draw, you are to watch a character in a novel to get a vibe of what this character is extremely similar to, and afterward transfer that data to another peruser in an unmistakable brief way.
There are 6 perspectives by which most creators portray their characters. They are:
1. Physical description
2. What the character says/does
3. What the character thinks
4. What others say to or about the character
5. What others do to the character
6. The setting in which the character is found
For a character portray, you should utilize citations from the book to help your perceptions. Utilize quotes and incidental reference. Incorporate no less than one citation for every case.
Elizabeth
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "the lovely articulation of her dim eyes" (Austen 24).
* "'What congrats will then stream in! I bid to Mr. Darcy:－but let me not intrude on you, Sir.－You won't express gratitude toward me for keeping you from the entrancing opposite of that young woman, whose splendid eyes are likewise criticizing me'" (Austen 91).
	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "She is average; yet not sufficiently attractive to entice me… " (Austen 13). - Mr. Darcy
* "'Lizzy isn't somewhat superior to the others; and I am certain she isn't half so nice looking as Jane, nor half as pleasant as Lydia'" (Austen 6). - Mrs. Bennet
* "'They are for the most part senseless and oblivious like different young ladies; however Lizzy has something a greater amount of briskness than her sisters'" (Austen 7). - Mr. Bennet
* "' You exceed expectations such a great amount in the move, Miss Eliza… " (Austen 27). - Sir William
* "'I Have been thinking about the simple extraordinary joy with a couple of fine eyes notwithstanding a pretty ladies can present'" (Austen 27). - Mr. Darcy
	What the Character Says/Does
* "'Compliments dependably shock you, and me never'" (Austen 16).
* "'however I generally talk what I think'"(Austen 16).
* "'A woman's creative ability is extremely fast; it bounces from adoration to cherish, from affection to marriage in a minute'" (Austen 28).
* "Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was
resolved to go to her, however the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no steed lady, strolling was her solitary option. She proclaimed her goals" (Austen 32).
* "I am not one of those young women (if such young women there are) who are so challenging as to hazard their bliss on the shot of being asked a second time. I am superbly genuine in my refusal [to wed Mr. Collins]" (Austen 105).
* "'Insolent young lady!' said Elizabeth to herself." (Austen 93).
	What Others Do to the Character
* "It was for the most part apparent at whatever point they met at whatever point they met, that he admired her; and to her it was similarly obvious that Jane was yielding the inclination… " (Austen 22).




	What the Character Thinks
* "The tumult of her psyche was presently agonizingly incredible. She knew not how to help herself, and from real shortcoming sat down and sobbed for 30 minutes… That she ought to get an offer of marriage from Mr.Darcy" (Austen 189).
* "She couldn't think about Darcy's leaving kent, without recalling that his cousin was to run with him; however Colonel Fitzwilliam had clarified that he had no aims by any stretch of the imagination, and pleasant he was, she didn't intend to be despondent about him" (Austen 184).




	The Setting Where the Character is Found
* "The following day opened another scene at Longbourn. . . On discovering, Mrs. Bennet, Elizabeth, and one of the more youthful young ladies together. . ." (Austen 102).
* "Elizabeth, as they drove along, looked for the main appearance of Pemberley Woods with some irritation; and when finally they turned in at the hotel, her spirits were in a high ripple" (Austen 235).






Darcy
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "Mr. Darcy before long attracted the consideration the room by his fine, tall individual, great looking highlights, honorable mein; and the report which was by and large flow inside five minutes after his passage of his having ten thousand per year" (Austen 12).


	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "The honorable men articulated him to be the fine figure of a man, the women announced he was considerably handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was taken a gander at with extraordinary profound respect for about a large portion of the night, till his conduct gave an appall which turned the tide of notoriety, for he was found to be glad, to be over his organization, or more being satisfied; and not all his expansive bequest in Derbyshire could then spare him from having a most prohibiting, obnoxious, face, and being shameful to be contrasted and his companion" (Austen 12).
* "He was the proudest, most unpleasant man on the planet, and everyone trusted that he could never come there again" (Austen 13).
* "'Indeed, Mama, you are mixed up,' said Elizabeth, becoming flushed for her mom. 'You very mixed up Mr. Darcy. He just implied that there were not such an assortment of individuals to be met with in the nation as around the local area, which you should recognize to be valid'" (Austen 43).
* "Bingley was charmed to Darcy by the effectiveness, transparency, pliability of his temper . . . had the firmest dependence, and of his judgment the most astounding feeling. In understanding Darcy was the prevalent . . . Darcy was smart. He was in the meantime haughty, held, and demanding, and his conduct, however very much reproduced, were not welcoming . . . Darcy was persistently giving offense" (Austen 18).
* Mrs. Bennet: "that Lizzy does not lose much by not suiting his extravagant; for he is a most upsetting, loathsome man, not under any condition worth satisfying. So high thus prideful that there was no persisting him. He strolled here, and he strolled there liking himself so extremely incredible! Not good looking enough to hit the dance floor with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set downs. I very hate the man" (Austen 15).
* Charlotte: "Mr. Darcy isn't so well worth tuning in to as his companion" (Austen 20).
* "Miss Bingley was charmed by Mr. Darcy" (Austen 36).
* "'Good sky!' cried Elizabeth; 'however how could that be－How could his will be disregarded－Why did not you look for lawful change'" (Austen 78)?
* "'What is Mr. Darcy to me, supplicate, that I ought to fear him? I am certain we owe him no such specific affability as to be obliged to state nothing he dislike to hear'" (Austen 97).
* " Mr.Darcy recognized himself to be under the best commitments to my dad's dynamic director . . 1. I am persuaded that he felt it to be as much an obligation of appreciation to him, as to love to myself" (Austen 79)
* "'Heaven forbid!－That would be the best adversity of all!－To discover a man pleasing whom one is resolved to hate!－Do not wish me such an abhorrent'" (Austen 89).
	What the Character Says/Does
* " There is unpleasantness in every one of human expressions which women now and then deign to utilize for captivation." (Austen 40)
* "Mr. Darcy moved just once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being acquainted with some other woman, and spent whatever is left of the night in strolling about the room, talking incidentally to one of his own gathering" (Austen 13).
* "Mr. Darcy had at first barely enabled her [Elizabeth] to be lovely; he had taken a gander at her without profound respect at the ball; and when they next met, he took a gander at her just to censure" (Austen 24). He starts to appreciate Elizabeth, seeing her dull eyes.




	What Others Do to the Character
* " And grasping her hand, he would have offered it to Mr. Darcy, who, however amazingly astounded, was not reluctant to get it, she stepped back" (Austen 27)


	What the Character Thinks
* "'The nation,' said Darcy, 'can when all is said in done supply yet few subjects for such an examination. In a nation neighborhood you move in an extremely limited and unvarying society'"
(Austen 42)
* About Elizabeth: "'She is middle of the road; yet not sufficiently attractive to entice me, and I am no diversion at present to offer result to young women who are insulted by other men" (Austen 13).
* "' And to all she should yet include something more significant, in the enhancement of her psyche by broad perusing'" (Austen 39)




	The Setting Where the Character is Found
*

















Lady Catherine
	Physical Description of the Character…
* "Woman Catherine was a tall, vast lady, with emphatically checked highlights, which may once have been good looking" (Austen 159).


	What Others Say To/About the Character
* "Permit me, incidentally, to watch, my reasonable cousin, that I don't figure the notice and graciousness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the minimum of the points of interest in the ability to offer. You will discover her behavior past anything I can depict. . ." (Austen 194).
* Darcy's auntie: "'You know obviously that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy were sisters; therefore that she is close relative to the present Mr. Darcy'" (Austen 81).
* Mr.Collins: " Lady Catherine won't think the more regrettable of you for being essentially dressed. She gets a kick out of the chance to have the refinement of rank protected." (Austen 168)
* ¨Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and confiding in their conclusion of her-their sentiment of everyone would dependably harmonize, there was a concern, an intrigue


	What the Character Says/Does
* ". . . also, ask tell from me, that she can't hope to exceed expectations, on the off chance that she doesn't rehearse a lot" (Austen 169)




	What Others Do to the Character




	What the Character Thinks




	The Setting Where the Character is Found










Key Vocabulary
Characterize and survey the accompanying key vocabulary for the novel. Furthermore, monitor other vocabulary that is new or new.


Word
	Definition
	Unfamiliar Words/Phrases
	odious
	Extremely unpleasant or repulsive
	"Mercenary Marriage" - Marriage for money.


"Caprice"- Impulsive change of mine


"Pliancy" - Flexibility


"Supercilious" - disdainful
"Vogue" - popularity


"Alacrity" - cheerful willingness


"Destitute" - poor


"Querulous" - complaining


"Panegyric" - compliment


"Heart to heart"- a private discussion between two individuals.


	haughty
	arrogant
	fastidious
	Meticulous or very attentive to detail
	veneration
	Great respect
	pompous
	Solemn or of self-importance
	taciturn
	Untalkative or saying little
	complaisance
	Complying with a wish or command
	imprudent
	Being rash or not showing care
	volatility
	Liability to change rapidly and unpredictably
	disdain
feeling that somebody or something is disgraceful of one's thought or regard; hatred
	exuberant
	Filled with lively energy and excitement
	petulance
	Being childish and bad-tempered
	acrimony
	Bitterness or ill feeling
	fortnight
	A period of two weeks in British terms
	brevity
	Concise or use of exact words
	ungracious
	Not polite or friendly
	saucy
	Cheeky, bold
	frankness
the nature of being open, genuine, and coordinate in discourse or composing
	abominably
	Very unpleasantly or unfairly
	wit
	clever or apt humor
	censure
	expression of formal disapproval
	vexed
	Problematic, annoyed, frustrated, or worried
	Study Questions
Chapters 1-12
At the primary ball, what actualities does the storyteller give about Darcy? How do the visitors see him? What is Elizabeth's initial introduction of him? Why?


At the primary ball, the storyteller portrays Darcy as a rich, attractive man. At first, the visitors imagine that he ought to be regarded in view of his fortune. Nonetheless, as they meet him, they consider him as a proud and prideful man. Elizabethś early introduction of him was that he is judgmental and brimming proudly in light of the fact that she catches him and Bingley discussing her and Elizabeth. He says that Elizabeth is no place close as great looking as Jane, so he isn't intrigued. He isn't occupied with any ladies there on the grounds that he looks down on them. This influences how Elizabeth treats or considers him for the following couple of parts.


Who is Charlotte Lucas? What remark does she make about Jane? What do you assume is the purpose for such a remark?


Charlotte Lucas is Elizabeth's closest companion, and little girl of William Lucas. Charlotte Lucas remarks that Jane should "secure her man" and afterward begin to look all starry eyed at. Charlotte Lucas makes this remark since she feels that there is sufficient relaxation time in the wake of being hitched to really experience passionate feelings for.


At Sir William Lucas' social event, how does Darcy act around Elizabeth? At Netherfield, how are their discussions?


At Sir William Lucas' social event, Darcy is an extremely cool, self important man who feels too useful for any lady at the get-together guaranteeing that she is a normal looking lady who isn't "sufficiently attractive to entice him". Whenever Darcy and Elizabeth are at Netherfield, their discussions were shy of next to zero significance as Elizabeth had caught Darcy asserting that she didn't be anything exceptional to take a gander at. Consequently making her put little exertion in keeping up the discussion with Mr. Darcy.


Why, do you believe, is Darcy pulled in to Elizabeth? What engaging characteristics does she have?


The engaging characteristics that Mr.Darcy is pulled in to with regards to Elizabeth is she is difficult to get and she has are her eyes, which for the most part pulled in him. She is likewise not the same as other ladies since she doesn't pursue with how a commonplace lady amid that time should act, such as having solid will and not wanting to get her "hands messy".


Charlotte Lucas says, "Bliss in marriage is altogether a matter of shot." What does this announcement uncover about her? Do you concur with her announcement? Clarify.


Charlotte's announcement uncovers that everybody ought to wed for riches or economic wellbeing before considering bliss. In this way, joy is made after their marriage or it is negligible fortunes that the couple has an association after marriage by any stretch of the imagination. I don't concur with her announcement since bliss ought to be thought of before riches or economic wellbeing. Individuals ought to wed for affection.


Chapters 13-24
Whenever Wickham and Elizabeth initially meet, what report does Wickham give Elizabeth about Darcy? What second impression does Wickham make on her? What is your impression of Wickham?


Wickham communicates the dishonesty of Darcy by giving an affair where Darcy's dad wills him to give Wickham the situation of pastor, however Darcy declined to make Wickham a priest once his dad had past away. Wickham's methods for discourse and talking with Elizabeth establishes a sentimental second connection on her.


How does Elizabeth react to Mr. Collins' proposition? What does her reaction uncover about her character?


Elizabeth rejects Mr. Collins' proposition in the most amiable and sensitive way that she is prepared to do. Her reaction to Mr. Collins' outlines how Elizabeth isn't occupied with wedding to enhance her very own budgetary status. Rather, Elizabeth needs to wed somebody whom she will love and who will bring her satisfaction. "You couldn't make me glad, and I am persuaded that I am the last ladies on the planet who might make you so" (Austen 105).


What occasion leaves Jane feeling discouraged? For what reason is Elizabeth irate at Bingley, his sisters, and Darcy?


Jane feels sad after Bingley, his sisters, and Darcy return back to London. Caroline Bingley composes back that Bingley is getting along with Miss Darcy and they intend to remain in London for momentarily, so Jane reveals to herself that it is alright and that she will get over him in the long run. Elizabeth is irate at his sisters and Darcy since she trusts that they are attempting to urge Bingley to wed Miss Darcy. This is principally in light of the fact that it will bring them closer as they are both well off families. Elizabeth is distraught at Bingley on the grounds that it appears as though he was driving on Jane. As her sister, she despises this foul play and trusts her sister merited better.


How does Wickham's story extend Elizabeth's preference against Darcy?


Wickham's story extend Elizabeth's preference against Darcy by expressing how Darcy did not pursue his dad's will. Thusly, Elizabeth proceeds or reinforces her conviction that Darcy is an arrogant and prideful man that does not think about anyone other than himself. Elizabeth as of now has that inclination after he affronts her appearance in the start of the story, so Wickham's story consoles her that her sentiments are substantial.


Do you share Elizabeth's stun at Charlotte's commitment to Mr. Collins? Clarify.


I don't share Elizabeth's stun at Charlotte's commitment to Mr. Collins since we definitely realize that Charlotte trusts that individuals ought to wed for riches or economic wellbeing instead of affection. This is indicated when she discloses to Jane that she should "secure the sack." Therefore, it's anything but a stun that she would wed Mr. Collins for his riches economic wellbeing.




Chapters 25-38
What new intrigue does Wickham have? What are the purposes for this new intrigue? Does Elizabeth dislike? Clarify.
Wickham sets her sights on another lady named Miss. Lord since she acquires a huge aggregate of cash which he needs as he isn't too off as she seems to be. Nonetheless, Elizabeth does not dislike since she can comprehend his thoughts with respect to why he would require the cash.




To whom is Lady Catherine de Bourgh related? How might you depict her treatment of Elizabeth?
Woman Catherine de Bourgh is the sister of Anne Darcy, mother of FitzWilliam Darcy and Georgiana Darcy. Woman Catherine de Bourgh endeavors to scare Elizabeth by attempting to instruct her on legitimate female behavior since she supposes Eliza is ill-advised and low class.


What essential data does Elizabeth find out about Darcy from Colonel Fitzwilliam? How can she respond?


The critical data that Colonel Fitzwilliam discloses to Elizabeth that Mr.Darcy is extremely defensive of his companion, which is probably alluding to Bingley, and that he was simply ensuring that he was not settling on an awful choice and not getting himself into a rash marriage. She responds by feeling that Colonel Fitzwilliam was implying at the possibility that he needs to wed her and this shows by how her face flushes with red everytime she thinks some about his commentings are alluding to it.


The epic achieves its first peak, or sensational defining moment, in this segment. In what scene does this peak happen? What addresses hang in the peruser's psyche after this scene?


The primary peak is when Darcy proposes to Elizabeth. This scene happens after Elizabeth's association with Colonel Fitzwilliam and discovers how Darcy impacted the separation among Jane and Bingley. Elizabeth rejects Darcy and clarifies why she is preference against him. He leaves, which makes the perusers question what will occur next between them.


What impact does Darcy's letter have on Elizabeth? What does she understand about herself? About her family?


Darcy's letter influences Elizabeth since it uncovers the certainties against Mr. Wickham. This influences her to understand that she has a bias against Mr. Wickham and Mr. Darcy, which influenced how she thought and treated them. This makes her additionally understand that her family is humiliating, which harms her. She can't inform Jane concerning this letter since it will hurt Jane to know how her actual affections for Bingley were not there or appeared.




Chapters 39-50
What two privileged insights concerning Darcy does Elizabeth uncover to Jane? What concern does Elizabeth express to her dad?


The two privileged insights that Elizabeth educates Jane regarding Darcy is his proposition to Elizabeth and the letter he sent concerning George Wickham and how genuinely malicious he is. They likewise chose to be close-lipped regarding Mr. Wickham because of the remote possibility that nobody will trust them and furthermore in light of the fact that wickham was leaving soon. Elizabeth reveals to her dad that she is worried about Lydia's character and conduct.


What does Elizabeth find out about Darcy from the servant at Pemberley? At the point when Darcy shows up, what shocks her about his conduct?


Elizabeth discovers that Darcyś servant at Pemberley regards and loves him, which is particular since she has a partiality towards Darcy for being a narrow minded and prideful man. At the point when Darcy shows up, she is astonished on the grounds that Darcy is so aware and liberal towards Mr. also, Mrs. Gardiner. She sees another side to him that she didn't see in Netherfield.


What emergency happens including Lydia? How is the emergency settled?


The emergency that happens including Lydia was that she fled with Mr.Wickham and she would have destroyed the notoriety of herself and her sisters. This emergency was settled when Mr.Bennet chose to pay Mr.Wickham ten thousand pounds with the end goal to have him wed Lydia and keep from outrage from occurring.


Which parts give lighthearted element from the mounting anticipation about Lydia's and Elizabeth's prospects in this segment? What comic occasions happen in these parts?


Part 50 gives lighthearted element from the mounting tension about Lydia's and Elizabeth's future since Mrs. Bennet gets news that Lydia has been hitched and as opposed to addressing who she has hitched she bounces up with energy that one of her little girls has hitched finally regardless of her not realizing it is Wickham. This shows entertainment through Mrs. Bennett's infantile practices since she is acting like a kid would to energizing news


In Chapter 42, what strategies does Austen use to depict the deficiencies of the Bennet's' marriage? In what ways is it a fizzled marriage?
In Chapter 42, Austen utilizes the internal considerations of Elizabeth to depict the deficiencies of the Bennet's' marriage. Austen uncovers that Eliza dependably felt that her dad was a lousy spouse yet smothered those musings because of him being a decent dad to her. Elizabeth concedes that her dad profited from her mom's obliviousness and in this way did not by any stretch of the imagination feel slanted to make her cheerful.


________________


Chapters 51-61
Depict Lydia and Wickham as love birds. How does Darcy understand the family emergency Lydia has caused? How does Elizabeth get some answers concerning Darcy's activities?


As love birds, Lydia is extremely egotistic about her being hitched and appears as though she profoundly is profoundly infatuated with Wickham. She additionally talks profoundly of her significant other. Wickham does not appear to respond her sentiments. Darcy unravels the emergency that Lydia reasons for her family by satisfying the expense the couple asks, for satisfies Wickham's obligations, and educates Mr.Gardner of where there area was. Elizabeth gets some answers concerning Darcy's activities first by Lydia neglecting it and after that she drives it out of her close relative to educate her regarding it.


For what reason does Lady Catherine interrogate Elizabeth? How does Elizabeth react?


She needs to ensure Elizabeth isn't having any desire to wed her nephew and that him and his cousin will have the capacity to be locked in. She reacts by facing Lady Catherine and not consenting to not wed Darcy.


What do Elizabeth and Darcy say to one another on their long walk? What has each gained from the other?


Darcy begins off with revealing to Elizabeth how despite everything he adores her and how his sentiments towards her never showed signs of change. He at that point inquired as to whether her sentiments towards him have changed or remained the equivalent. Elizabeth at that point uncovers to Darcy that her sentiments towards him has changed radically changed. This acknowledgment at that point made Darcy propose and towards the end, they were locked in.


Protecting her entitlement to wed Darcy, Elizabeth reveals to Lady Catherine, "He is a man of honor; I am a refined man's little girl; so far we are equivalent." In what different ways are Elizabeth and Darcy measures up to?


Elizabeth and Darcy are equals


Thinking about the story's decision, how might you portray Elizabeth? Okay call her a women's activist? Clarify.


Elizabeth was a solid, autonomous lady who talked her psyche and did not cherish for societal position not at all like other ladies amid that day and age. She is certifiably not a women's activist since regardless she acknowledges the jobs of people. She simply does not acknowledge the job of financial class influencing connections.










Summative Project Options
Since we have completed the novel, the time has come to finish the summative task. For this unit, you may pick the undertaking you might want to finish.
Decorum Pamphlet - Write a 4-6 page flyer portraying fitting conduct in social circumstances amid this day and age. You may address the customs of making presentations, pursuing, moving, and making discussion. Clarify whether the rules were diverse for people. Expand on the significance of good behavior in considerate society. Address regardless of whether the guidelines of conduct were distinctive for the diverse classes.


Image Collection - Create 10 images to speak to characters, key plot occasions, and subjects from the content. What's more, compose 1-2 sentences for each clarifying why it is critical.


Motion picture Critique - Watch one the movie adjustments of the novel and compose a 2-3 page evaluate tending to the translations by the chief, including: critical contrasts in the plot (What scenes and characters from the book are overlooked, changed, or joined?), consistency of perspective, throwing of the characters (Do the performing artists assuming the jobs coordinate pictures made by Austen's advancement of her characters in the novel?), and production of tension (What is picked up or lost by realizing the story will have an upbeat completion? How does the film make tension?)
Film adaptations options include:
1940. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Robert Z. Leonard (MGM Studios); performing artists: Greer Garson and Laurence Olivier.
1985. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Cyril Coke (BBC); performing artists: Elizabeth Garvie and David Rintoul.
1996. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Simon Langton (BBC); performing artists: Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth.
2005. Pride and Prejudice, coordinated by Joe Wright (Universal International Pictures); on-screen characters: Keira Knightley and Matthew Macfadyen.
2004. Lady of the hour and Prejudice, coordinated by Gurinder Chadha (Miramax); performers: Aishwarya Rai and Martin Henderson.
2016. Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, coordinated by Burr Steers (Lionsgate); performers: Lily James and Sam Riley.


https://i.ytimg.com/vi/jp-JUU_pJ0c/hqdefault.jpg
________________



Pride and Prejudice Fact Sheet


full title  ·  Pride and Prejudice
author  · Jane Austen
type of work  · Novel
genre  · Comedy of manners
language  · English
time and place composed · England, somewhere in the range of 1796 and 1813
date of first publication  · 1813
publisher  · Thomas Egerton of London
narrator  · Third-person omniscient
peak · Mr. Darcy's proposition to Elizabeth (Volume 3, Chapter 16)
protagonist · Elizabeth Bennet
rival · Snobbish class-cognizance (typified by Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Miss Bingley)
setting (time) · Some point amid the Napoleonic Wars (1797– 1815)
setting (place) · Longbourn, in rural England
perspective · The epic is basically told from Elizabeth Bennet's perspective.
falling activity · The two parts of the novel after Darcy's proposition
tense  · Past tense
anticipating · The main outstanding case of hinting happens when Elizabeth visits Pemberley, Darcy's home, in Volume 3, Chapter 1. Her energy about the bequest anticipates her inevitable acknowledgment of her affection for its proprietor.
tone · Comic—or, in Jane Austen's very own words, "light and splendid, and shimmering"
themes  · Love; Reputation; Class
motifs  · Courtship; Journeys
images · The tale is light on imagery, with the exception of on the visit to Pemberley, which is depicted as being "neither formal, nor dishonestly enhanced," and is unmistakably intended to symbolize the character of Mr. Darcy.